I understand your concern about the prospects of the American experiment.  The entire economic foundation of the country revolves around exploitative labor, and there is a not-insignificant population who believes that subjugation must be kept the norm.

But you see, America has always been broken.  From the belief that they deserved its land, and the belief that people different than them weren't people, to the systematic exploitation of the natural gifts, to the hoarding of resources.  

Maybe we have been suffering from an accelerationist effect due to mismanagement of the tools that were created to bring stability and opportunity to the world.  Maybe we will collapse, or suffer conflict, or continue to slide into dysfunction.

But what brings me hope and stability is the belief that we can succeed at a local, community level.  Vote for school board, local judges, DA's, comptrollers.  Participate in the community through volunteering and helping your neighbors.  Learn who the people around you are, even if they aren't people you necessarily like. 

They say it takes a village... Villages are small, local, knit communities.  Villagers can be hard to find among the people who live apathetically, but when you seek them you reinforce the community structure and strength of your neighborhood to stay healthy. My family lived in villages until 2 generations ago.  It is a gift to have the perspective of the village in the land full of countrymen.

Seek your village, go out of your way to learn about those around you.  It will bring you joy and comfort and you won't stand alone when the moment comes to stand up.  For me, this is how I determine my political action and community stewardship.

My great grandfather spent his life in and out of prison, fighting for Indian independence from the British.  These are the lessons our family keeps going.  And I, for one, am grateful for your presence in the village.  Keep your head up and stay focused until you find yourself to be free.
